Privacy.md, before:

# Browser Extensions Privacy Policy

_Effective Date: November 13, 2024_

I respect and value your privacy. This Privacy Policy describes how I handle and protect your personal information in relation to your use of my Browser Extension(s).

## Information Collection
My Browser Extensions do not collect any personal information from users. I do not gather, store, or transmit any data that can be used to personally identify you, such as your name, email address, or location. Since no data is collected, none of your data is sold to third parties.

## Links to Other Websites
My Browser Extensions may contain links to other websites not operated by me. This Privacy Policy does not cover how that website processes personal information. I encourage you to review the Privacy Policy of every website that you visit.

## Changes to this Privacy Policy
I reserve the right to amend this Privacy Policy at any time. Any changes will be effective immediately upon posting the revised Privacy Policy, and the "Effective Date" above will be updated. You are advised to review this Privacy Policy periodically for any changes.

By using my Browser Extensions, you signify your consent and agreement to the terms of this Privacy Policy. If you do not agree with this Privacy Policy, please refrain from using my Browser Extensions.

## Feedback
If you have questions or concerns about this Privacy Policy, you can contact me by [email](mailto:elementdavv@hotmail.com).

Commit message:

v1.2.0: Major Modernization & Fixes for Archive.org (2024+)
- Shadow DOM support & parallel fetching (10 tasks)
- 403 resilience & physical asset restoration
- Legal disclaimers & version bump to 1.2.0

Privacy.md, after:

# Browser Extensions Privacy Policy

_Effective Date: November 13, 2024_

I respect and value your privacy. This Privacy Policy describes how I handle and protect your personal information in relation to your use of my Browser Extension(s).

## Information Collection
My Browser Extensions do not collect any personal information from users. I do not gather, store, or transmit any data that can be used to personally identify you over a network. 

**Note on Session Usage**: To facilitate downloads from Archive.org and HathiTrust, the extension uses your active browser session (cookies). These cookies are only used locally for authentication with the respective platforms during the download process and are never transmitted to any other party or server controlled by me. Since no data is collected, none of your data is sold to third parties.

## Links to Other Websites
My Browser Extensions may contain links to other websites not operated by me. This Privacy Policy does not cover how that website processes personal information. I encourage you to review the Privacy Policy of every website that you visit.

## Changes to this Privacy Policy
I reserve the right to amend this Privacy Policy at any time. Any changes will be effective immediately upon posting the revised Privacy Policy, and the "Effective Date" above will be updated. You are advised to review this Privacy Policy periodically for any changes.

By using my Browser Extensions, you signify your consent and agreement to the terms of this Privacy Policy. If you do not agree with this Privacy Policy, please refrain from using my Browser Extensions.

## Feedback
If you have questions or concerns about this Privacy Policy, you can contact me by [email](mailto:elementdavv@hotmail.com).
